GITHUB_PAGES.md, before:

# Editing and Publishing the GitHub Pages Website

The [published website](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/enterprise-MCP/).

The documentation for this repo is published using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). We welcome contributions as PRs. See the AI Alliance [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) instructions. Also, you'll need to agree with the AI Alliance [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and all contributions will be covered by the [LICENSE](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE) (which is also in [this repo](LICENSE)).

> [!NOTE]
> The documentation in this repo is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International. To view a copy of this license, see [LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0](LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0) or visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode. All code uses the [Apache 2.0](LICENSE.Apache-2.0) license. All data uses the [CDLA 2.0](LICENSE.CDLA-2.0) license.


## Quick Setup

We use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) so edits can be made in Markdown, updates can be managed using pull requests, and the results can be published automatically by GitHub.

In fact, each page has _Edit this page on GitHub_ links, making it easy to view a page, then go straight to the source to edit it and submit a PR! This is the best way to help us fix typos and make similar small edits.

However, this easy approach only supports correcting content on a single page. for more significant changes, like adding new pages, you may want the ability to preview the changes locally.

Local previewing allows you to see how any changes, even on a single page, will _really_ look when rendered with stylesheets, etc. While GitHub renders Markdown well, there are extensions we use that are supported by Jekyll that won't be rendered correctly in GitHub's default Markdown file viewer.

> [!NOTE]
> If you don't want to setup `jekyll` for previewing or if you have trouble setting it up, don't let that stop you from contributing content! Submit a PR with your changes and we'll review them in a running environment ourselves. We'll provide feedback as needed.

So, to view the website locally and to make more extensive changes, you'll need to have a recent version of [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) installed, along with the [`gem`](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Gem.html) library management tool, and [`jekyll`](https://jekyllrb.com/) which is the webserver and rendering engine.

We discuss these steps in more depth [below](#setup-jekyll), but the following steps may _just work_ for you.

Install a recent version of Ruby 3. Note that on MacOS, the default Ruby installation is old, version 2.6.10. Installing Ruby will also install the `gem` dependency tool.

This project's `Makefile` will attempt to install the remaining dependencies, including `jekyll`, when you run `make all` or `make view-local`.

> [!WARNING]
> The automatic setup of `jekyll` in the `Makefile` has only been tested on MacOS and it most likely doesn't work on Windows, unless you use the Linux subsystem. If you encounter problems on other platforms, please [post an issue](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/issues) to get help, or if you can fix the issue, a [pull request](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/pulls) (PR) is always welcome :nerd_face:. (More details on PRs below.)

So, try `make view-local` and see if Jekyll is installed successfully and the website is rendered.

The command will finish with a message like this:

```
...
Server address: http://127.0.0.1:4000/
Server running... press ctrl-c to stop.
```

Open the URL in a browser.

> [!TIP]
>
> 1. On MacOS, use &#8984;-click on the URL to open it in a browser.
> 2. Run `make help` for a list of the main commands defined.
> 3. Run `JEKYLL_PORT=4444 make view-local` to use port `4444` instead of `4000`.
> 4. `view-local` will always check the Ruby and Jekyll installation. To skip this, use `make run-jekyll` instead.

## Contributing New or Improved Content

What gets displayed by GitHub Pages is the customized Markdown files in the `docs` directory. If you need to create a new page, copy an existing page to get the correct "header" information, then edit as needed.

Here are some things you should know.

### Using the Correct Branch

Issue PRs for the `main` branch. Note that many of our microsite repos are configured to publish the website from another branch, usually `latest`, not `main`. For those repos, it will be necessary to merge from `main` to `latest` after merging the PR.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are curious, the details of how the publication process is configured are discussed [below](#configuring-github-pages-in-the-repo-settings).

### Updating the Website Version

By default, the template file for `docs/index.markdown` has the latest _version_ in a table near the top of the page and a table with the history of the versions near the bottom. Some websites have deleted this content or moved it elsewhere. We don't require you to include this information nor do we require that you update it according to any specific requirements, if you keep it. However, if you keep this information, you'll want to edit the current version in the following places:

* `docs/config.yml`: Edit `last_modified_timestamp` and `last_version`.
* `docs/index.markdown` and possible other files, like `docs/about.markdown`: Find and update **Last Update**, which by default is in a table near the top of `docs/index.markdown`, and add the new version to the **Version History** table, which by default is near the bottom of `docs/index.markdown`.

## Editing Conventions and Tips

### Links

For _internal_ cross-references, use the conventional `[title]({{site.baseurl}}/relative_URL)` Markdown syntax.

> [!WARNING]
> the `{{site.baseurl}}/` prefix is _essential_, because this _prefix_ will be different for local execution, e.g., when using `make view-local`, vs. the URLs for published sites.

For _external_ links (those that start with `http` or `https`), add `{:target="_blank"}` to every external link in Markdown and `target="_blank"` for every HTML anchor tag, e.g.,

```markdown
[AI Alliance website](https://aialliance.org){:target="_blank"}
```

```html
<a href="https://aialliance.org" target="_blank">AI Alliance website</a>
```

While tedious this provides a better experience for users of the website.

> **TIP:** Use the script `check-external-links.sh` to find missing targets.

Furthermore, as a visual clue to the user, [our stylesheet](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/blob/main/docs/_includes/css/custom.scss.liquid) is configured to put little up-and-to-the-right arrows after every external link. This provides a visual cue that a new tab will be opened.

> [!NOTE]
> There is one flaw with using `_blank` everywhere. While Chrome and Safari open a new tab for every URL clicked, Firefox creates one new tab and opens all the URLs in that _one_ tab. If you care about this flaw, you'll have to use unique values for all the `targets`.

Unfortunately, we could avoid explicitly adding `target="_blank"` everywhere _if_ we could use the [`jekyll-target-blank` plugin](https://github.com/keithmifsud/jekyll-target-blank), which effectively adds `target="_blank"` to every anchor tag automatically. Unfortunately, GitHub Pages currently don't support this plugin. 😖 😢

```markdown
[`jekyll-target-blank` plugin](https://github.com/keithmifsud/jekyll-target-blank){:target="arbitrary_name"}
```

### Emojis

In the pages, you can use emojis, e.g., `:+1:` yields :+1:, `:smirk:` yields :smirk:, `:nerd_face:` yields :nerd_face:, etc. The `jemoji` Ruby gem adds this capability. [Here is a list of available emojis](https://www.webfx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/).

### Redirects

The `docs/_layouts/redirect.html` page makes it easy to define a redirect. Suppose you have a page `docs/foo/bar.markdown` and you decide to rename it `docs/foo/not-so-bar.markdown`, but you don't want to break the old link. Instead, you want the old URL to redirect to the new one. Change the content in `docs/foo/bar.markdown` to the following:

```yaml
---
layout: redirect
redirect_rel_url: foo/not-so-bar
---
```

Note that `redirect_rel_url` is _relative_ to the site root path.

## Previewing Your Work Locally

We provided a basic set of instructions above for setting up Jekyll locally. Here is a more detailed set of instructions, if you need them.

### Setup Jekyll

First, you'll need a reasonably recent version of Ruby installed. The one that comes with MacOS is _not new enough_. See [Use Homebrew to Install Ruby on MacOS](#use-homebrew-to-install-ruby-on-macos) to install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) and then Ruby using the `brew` command.

Afterwards, the commands shown next should produce similar output that shown from Dean's machine, circa June 2024:

```shell
$ which ruby
/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/3.3.0/bin/ruby
$ ruby --version
ruby 3.3.0 (2023-12-25 revision 5124f9ac75) [x86_64-darwin23]
```

> [!WARNING]
> In 2022, when we used these tools, building the website was not working with Ruby 3.2, you may still need to use 3.3 or 3.1.

For MacOS, make sure the `ruby` path shown is not `/usr/bin/ruby`, which is the old, built-in 2.6 version. Try `which -a ruby`, which will hopefully show the `Cellar` version second. If so, edit the `PATH` definition in your `~/.zshrc` file to put the newer `/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/3.X.Y/bin` directory before `/usr/bin/`.

Now, it _should_ be sufficient to run the following command:

```shell
make setup-jekyll
```

If this fails, then see the [Tips and Known Issues](#tips-and-known-issues) below.

### View the Pages Locally

Once Jekyll is set up, you can serve the pages locally for previewing and editing by running one of the following commands, then open [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) (default port...) in a browser:

```shell
make view-local   # Install all Jekyll dependencies, then make "run-jekyll"
make run-jekyll   # Run the jekyll server. Avoids dependency setup every time!
JEKYLL_PORT=4444 make view-local   # Use a different port, 4444 instead of 4000
JEKYLL_PORT=4444 make run-jekyll
```

If an error is thrown, see the [Tips and Known Issues](#tips-and-known-issues) below.

> [!TIP]
>
> 1. On MacOS, use &#8984;-click on the URL to open it in a browser.
> 2. Run `make help` for a list of the main commands defined.

The `run-jekyll` target runs the following command:

```shell
cd docs && bundle exec jekyll serve --port ${JEKYLL_PORT} --baseurl '' --incremental
```

* `JEKYLL_PORT` for the `--port` flag defaults to `4000`
* The `--baseurl` flag effectively supports the simple URL, `localhost:$JEKYLL_PORT`. (Without it, the URL would be `localhost:$JEKYLL_PORT/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/`.)
* The `--incremental` flag lets you edit the pages and refresh the browser tab to see the updates immediately.

> [!NOTE]
> Well, more or less immediately. It can take several seconds for new pages to be generated and sometimes you'll get weird behaviors if you change URL paths, etc. So, occasionally it is useful to _control-c_ in the terminal and rerun the `make` command.

> [!TIP]
> `make view-pages` opens the _published_ GitHub Pages in a browser tab.

### Now Edit!

You can now edit the pages, save them, then refresh your browser to see the updates.

## Tips and Known Issues

### Use Homebrew to Install Ruby on MacOS (Recommended)

You really can't use the Ruby that comes with your Mac, because:
1. It's too old, 2.6.X, instead of 3.X, which we need.
2. You don't have permissions to install Gems into `/Library/...`

So, install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), if you haven't already. Then use it to install a local, recent version of Ruby:

```shell
brew install ruby@3.3
which -a ruby
```

If the last command shows `/usr/bin/ruby` before a path like `/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/3.3.0/bin/ruby`, then you will have to edit your `~/.zshrc` file and make sure the `/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/...` path comes before `/usr/bin`. For example, the following line will just put this Ruby first. (this is a hack):

```shell
PATH="/usr/local/opt/ruby/3.3.0/bin:$PATH"
```

(Use the exact version number you have!)

Then in your terminal, either open a new window/tab or run the command `source ~/.zshrc` to load the changed `PATH`. Now `which ruby` should return a path in `/usr/local/Cellar/...` and `ruby --version` should return the correct 3.X version.

### The Jekyll Installation Instructions Failed

Suppose you run the following command and it fails:

```shell
make setup-jekyll  # also executed when making `view-local`
```

First, make sure you are using a valid version of `ruby`. A symptom you didn't do that; you'll see this error message:

```
You don't have write permissions for the /Library/Ruby/Gems/2.6.0 directory.
```

The commands run by `make setup-jekyll` include the following (a few details omitted for simplification):

```shell
gem install bundler jekyll jemoji
bundle install
bundle update html-pipeline
```

Finally, if you are still stuck, please [post an issue](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/issues) to get help.

> **Help Needed:**
>
> If you find missing steps that `make setup-jekyll` should run but doesn't, or you find and fix problems that only occur on non-MacOS platforms, **please** submit a PR with fixes! Thank you.

### The "make view-local" Command Fails

What if `make view-local` command fails with this error message?

```shell
jekyll 3.9.2 | Error: No such file or directory @ rb_check_realpath_internal
```

First, that's an old Jekyll version. It should be 4.3.3 or later. Try these commands:

```shell
gem uninstall jekyll
gem install jekyll
gem list | grep jekyll
```

### Configuring GitHub Pages in the Repo Settings

This section documents the one-time settings necessary to [configure publication of a repo's GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.1/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site). 

In the repo's [_Settings > Pages_ section](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/settings/pages), use the menu to select the branch from which you want to publish the website. By default, we assume `main` is the desired branch, so pick that. However, if you want to use a different branch, i.e., `latest` or another one you specified when running `finish-microsite.sh`, then select it. Finally, select the `docs` folder in the dropdown menu to the right, which is the root folder for the pages.

Commit message:

Changed instructions for editing the last modified date and version.

GITHUB_PAGES.md, after:

# Editing and Publishing the GitHub Pages Website

The [published website](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/enterprise-MCP/).

The documentation for this repo is published using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/). We welcome contributions as PRs. See the AI Alliance [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) instructions. Also, you'll need to agree with the AI Alliance [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and all contributions will be covered by the [LICENSE](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE) (which is also in [this repo](LICENSE)).

> [!NOTE]
> The documentation in this repo is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International. To view a copy of this license, see [LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0](LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0) or visit https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode. All code uses the [Apache 2.0](LICENSE.Apache-2.0) license. All data uses the [CDLA 2.0](LICENSE.CDLA-2.0) license.


## Quick Setup

We use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) so edits can be made in Markdown, updates can be managed using pull requests, and the results can be published automatically by GitHub.

In fact, each page has _Edit this page on GitHub_ links, making it easy to view a page, then go straight to the source to edit it and submit a PR! This is the best way to help us fix typos and make similar small edits.

However, this easy approach only supports correcting content on a single page. for more significant changes, like adding new pages, you may want the ability to preview the changes locally.

Local previewing allows you to see how any changes, even on a single page, will _really_ look when rendered with stylesheets, etc. While GitHub renders Markdown well, there are extensions we use that are supported by Jekyll that won't be rendered correctly in GitHub's default Markdown file viewer.

> [!NOTE]
> If you don't want to setup `jekyll` for previewing or if you have trouble setting it up, don't let that stop you from contributing content! Submit a PR with your changes and we'll review them in a running environment ourselves. We'll provide feedback as needed.

So, to view the website locally and to make more extensive changes, you'll need to have a recent version of [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/) installed, along with the [`gem`](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/Gem.html) library management tool, and [`jekyll`](https://jekyllrb.com/) which is the webserver and rendering engine.

We discuss these steps in more depth [below](#setup-jekyll), but the following steps may _just work_ for you.

Install a recent version of Ruby 3. Note that on MacOS, the default Ruby installation is old, version 2.6.10. Installing Ruby will also install the `gem` dependency tool.

This project's `Makefile` will attempt to install the remaining dependencies, including `jekyll`, when you run `make all` or `make view-local`.

> [!WARNING]
> The automatic setup of `jekyll` in the `Makefile` has only been tested on MacOS and it most likely doesn't work on Windows, unless you use the Linux subsystem. If you encounter problems on other platforms, please [post an issue](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/issues) to get help, or if you can fix the issue, a [pull request](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/pulls) (PR) is always welcome :nerd_face:. (More details on PRs below.)

So, try `make view-local` and see if Jekyll is installed successfully and the website is rendered.

The command will finish with a message like this:

```
...
Server address: http://127.0.0.1:4000/
Server running... press ctrl-c to stop.
```

Open the URL in a browser.

> [!TIP]
>
> 1. On MacOS, use &#8984;-click on the URL to open it in a browser.
> 2. Run `make help` for a list of the main commands defined.
> 3. Run `JEKYLL_PORT=4444 make view-local` to use port `4444` instead of `4000`.
> 4. `view-local` will always check the Ruby and Jekyll installation. To skip this, use `make run-jekyll` instead.

## Contributing New or Improved Content

What gets displayed by GitHub Pages is the customized Markdown files in the `docs` directory. If you need to create a new page, copy an existing page to get the correct "header" information, then edit as needed.

Here are some things you should know.

### Using the Correct Branch

Issue PRs for the `main` branch. Note that many of our microsite repos are configured to publish the website from another branch, usually `latest`, not `main`. For those repos, it will be necessary to merge from `main` to `latest` after merging the PR.

> [!NOTE]
> If you are curious, the details of how the publication process is configured are discussed [below](#configuring-github-pages-in-the-repo-settings).

### Updating the Website Version and Last Modified Date

By default, the footer of the pages shows the latest version and laste modified date. We don't require you to include this information nor do we require that you update it according to any specific requirements, if you decide to keep it. However, if you keep this information, you'll want to update this information periodically around lines 96-97 in `docs/config.yml`:

```
last_edit_time_format: "%Y-%m-%d" # uses ruby's time format...
last_modified_date: 2025-07-18
last_version: V0.2.2
```

## Editing Conventions and Tips

### Links

For _internal_ cross-references, use the conventional `[title]({{site.baseurl}}/relative_URL)` Markdown syntax.

> [!WARNING]
> the `{{site.baseurl}}/` prefix is _essential_, because this _prefix_ will be different for local execution, e.g., when using `make view-local`, vs. the URLs for published sites.

For _external_ links (those that start with `http` or `https`), add `{:target="_blank"}` to every external link in Markdown and `target="_blank"` for every HTML anchor tag, e.g.,

```markdown
[AI Alliance website](https://aialliance.org){:target="_blank"}
```

```html
<a href="https://aialliance.org" target="_blank">AI Alliance website</a>
```

While tedious this provides a better experience for users of the website.

> **TIP:** Use the script `check-external-links.sh` to find missing targets.

Furthermore, as a visual clue to the user, [our stylesheet](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/blob/main/docs/_includes/css/custom.scss.liquid) is configured to put little up-and-to-the-right arrows after every external link. This provides a visual cue that a new tab will be opened.

> [!NOTE]
> There is one flaw with using `_blank` everywhere. While Chrome and Safari open a new tab for every URL clicked, Firefox creates one new tab and opens all the URLs in that _one_ tab. If you care about this flaw, you'll have to use unique values for all the `targets`.

Unfortunately, we could avoid explicitly adding `target="_blank"` everywhere _if_ we could use the [`jekyll-target-blank` plugin](https://github.com/keithmifsud/jekyll-target-blank), which effectively adds `target="_blank"` to every anchor tag automatically. Unfortunately, GitHub Pages currently don't support this plugin. 😖 😢

```markdown
[`jekyll-target-blank` plugin](https://github.com/keithmifsud/jekyll-target-blank){:target="arbitrary_name"}
```

### Emojis

In the pages, you can use emojis, e.g., `:+1:` yields :+1:, `:smirk:` yields :smirk:, `:nerd_face:` yields :nerd_face:, etc. The `jemoji` Ruby gem adds this capability. [Here is a list of available emojis](https://www.webfx.com/tools/emoji-cheat-sheet/).

### Redirects

The `docs/_layouts/redirect.html` page makes it easy to define a redirect. Suppose you have a page `docs/foo/bar.markdown` and you decide to rename it `docs/foo/not-so-bar.markdown`, but you don't want to break the old link. Instead, you want the old URL to redirect to the new one. Change the content in `docs/foo/bar.markdown` to the following:

```yaml
---
layout: redirect
redirect_rel_url: foo/not-so-bar
---
```

Note that `redirect_rel_url` is _relative_ to the site root path.

## Previewing Your Work Locally

We provided a basic set of instructions above for setting up Jekyll locally. Here is a more detailed set of instructions, if you need them.

### Setup Jekyll

First, you'll need a reasonably recent version of Ruby installed. The one that comes with MacOS is _not new enough_. See [Use Homebrew to Install Ruby on MacOS](#use-homebrew-to-install-ruby-on-macos) to install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) and then Ruby using the `brew` command.

Afterwards, the commands shown next should produce similar output that shown from Dean's machine, circa June 2024:

```shell
$ which ruby
/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/3.3.0/bin/ruby
$ ruby --version
ruby 3.3.0 (2023-12-25 revision 5124f9ac75) [x86_64-darwin23]
```

> [!WARNING]
> In 2022, when we used these tools, building the website was not working with Ruby 3.2, you may still need to use 3.3 or 3.1.

For MacOS, make sure the `ruby` path shown is not `/usr/bin/ruby`, which is the old, built-in 2.6 version. Try `which -a ruby`, which will hopefully show the `Cellar` version second. If so, edit the `PATH` definition in your `~/.zshrc` file to put the newer `/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/3.X.Y/bin` directory before `/usr/bin/`.

Now, it _should_ be sufficient to run the following command:

```shell
make setup-jekyll
```

If this fails, then see the [Tips and Known Issues](#tips-and-known-issues) below.

### View the Pages Locally

Once Jekyll is set up, you can serve the pages locally for previewing and editing by running one of the following commands, then open [localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000) (default port...) in a browser:

```shell
make view-local   # Install all Jekyll dependencies, then make "run-jekyll"
make run-jekyll   # Run the jekyll server. Avoids dependency setup every time!
JEKYLL_PORT=4444 make view-local   # Use a different port, 4444 instead of 4000
JEKYLL_PORT=4444 make run-jekyll
```

If an error is thrown, see the [Tips and Known Issues](#tips-and-known-issues) below.

> [!TIP]
>
> 1. On MacOS, use &#8984;-click on the URL to open it in a browser.
> 2. Run `make help` for a list of the main commands defined.

The `run-jekyll` target runs the following command:

```shell
cd docs && bundle exec jekyll serve --port ${JEKYLL_PORT} --baseurl '' --incremental
```

* `JEKYLL_PORT` for the `--port` flag defaults to `4000`
* The `--baseurl` flag effectively supports the simple URL, `localhost:$JEKYLL_PORT`. (Without it, the URL would be `localhost:$JEKYLL_PORT/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/`.)
* The `--incremental` flag lets you edit the pages and refresh the browser tab to see the updates immediately.

> [!NOTE]
> Well, more or less immediately. It can take several seconds for new pages to be generated and sometimes you'll get weird behaviors if you change URL paths, etc. So, occasionally it is useful to _control-c_ in the terminal and rerun the `make` command.

> [!TIP]
> `make view-pages` opens the _published_ GitHub Pages in a browser tab.

### Now Edit!

You can now edit the pages, save them, then refresh your browser to see the updates.

## Tips and Known Issues

### Use Homebrew to Install Ruby on MacOS (Recommended)

You really can't use the Ruby that comes with your Mac, because:
1. It's too old, 2.6.X, instead of 3.X, which we need.
2. You don't have permissions to install Gems into `/Library/...`

So, install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh), if you haven't already. Then use it to install a local, recent version of Ruby:

```shell
brew install ruby@3.3
which -a ruby
```

If the last command shows `/usr/bin/ruby` before a path like `/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/3.3.0/bin/ruby`, then you will have to edit your `~/.zshrc` file and make sure the `/usr/local/Cellar/ruby/...` path comes before `/usr/bin`. For example, the following line will just put this Ruby first. (this is a hack):

```shell
PATH="/usr/local/opt/ruby/3.3.0/bin:$PATH"
```

(Use the exact version number you have!)

Then in your terminal, either open a new window/tab or run the command `source ~/.zshrc` to load the changed `PATH`. Now `which ruby` should return a path in `/usr/local/Cellar/...` and `ruby --version` should return the correct 3.X version.

### The Jekyll Installation Instructions Failed

Suppose you run the following command and it fails:

```shell
make setup-jekyll  # also executed when making `view-local`
```

First, make sure you are using a valid version of `ruby`. A symptom you didn't do that; you'll see this error message:

```
You don't have write permissions for the /Library/Ruby/Gems/2.6.0 directory.
```

The commands run by `make setup-jekyll` include the following (a few details omitted for simplification):

```shell
gem install bundler jekyll jemoji
bundle install
bundle update html-pipeline
```

Finally, if you are still stuck, please [post an issue](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/issues) to get help.

> **Help Needed:**
>
> If you find missing steps that `make setup-jekyll` should run but doesn't, or you find and fix problems that only occur on non-MacOS platforms, **please** submit a PR with fixes! Thank you.

### The "make view-local" Command Fails

What if `make view-local` command fails with this error message?

```shell
jekyll 3.9.2 | Error: No such file or directory @ rb_check_realpath_internal
```

First, that's an old Jekyll version. It should be 4.3.3 or later. Try these commands:

```shell
gem uninstall jekyll
gem install jekyll
gem list | grep jekyll
```

### Configuring GitHub Pages in the Repo Settings

This section documents the one-time settings necessary to [configure publication of a repo's GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.1/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site). 

In the repo's [_Settings > Pages_ section](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/settings/pages), use the menu to select the branch from which you want to publish the website. By default, we assume `main` is the desired branch, so pick that. However, if you want to use a different branch, i.e., `latest` or another one you specified when running `finish-microsite.sh`, then select it. Finally, select the `docs` folder in the dropdown menu to the right, which is the root folder for the pages.
