README.md, before:

# README for MCP in the Enterprise: A User Guide

[Published Documentation](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/enterprise-MCP/)

This repo contains the code and documentation for the AI Alliance: MCP in the Enterprise: A User Guide.

See the [project website](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/enterprise-MCP/) for additional details about this project.

TODO - Describe this project

The rest of this README provides information for contributors, developers, and users of this project repo.

## Getting Involved

We welcome contributions as PRs. Please see our [Alliance community repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/) for general information about contributing to any of our projects. This section provides some specific details you need to know.

In particular, see the AI Alliance [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) instructions. You will need to agree with the AI Alliance [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

All _code_ contributions are licensed under the [Apache 2.0 LICENSE](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE.Apache-2.0) (which is also in this repo, [LICENSE.Apache-2.0](LICENSE.Apache-2.0)).

All _documentation_ contributions are licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0) (which is also in this repo, [LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0](LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0)).

All _data_ contributions are licensed under the [Community Data License Agreement - Permissive - Version 2.0](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE.CDLA-2.0) (which is also in this repo, [LICENSE.CDLA-2.0](LICENSE.CDLA-2.0)).

### Quick Tip - View the Website Locally

See [GITHUB_PAGES.md](GITHUB_PAGES.md) for information on viewing the site locally with `jekyll`.

### We use the "Developer Certificate of Origin" (DCO).

> [!WARNING]
> Before you make any git commits with changes, understand what's required for DCO.

See the Alliance contributing guide [section on DCO](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#developer-certificate-of-origin) for details. In practical terms, supporting this requirement means you must use the `-s` flag with your `git commit` commands.

## About the GitHub Pages Website Published from this Repo

The website is published using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), where the pages are written in Markdown and served using [Jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll). We use the [Just the Docs](https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/) Jekyll theme.

See [GITHUB_PAGES.md](GITHUB_PAGES.md) for more information.

> [!NOTE]
> As described above, all documentation is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International. See [LICENSE.CDLA-2.0](LICENSE.CDLA-2.0)).

Commit message:

Project-specific updates.
Signed-off-by: Dean Wampler <dean.wampler@ibm.com>

README.md, after:

# README for MCP in the Enterprise: A User Guide

[Published Documentation](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/enterprise-MCP/)

This repo contains the GitHub Pages website with articles on using MCP effectively in enterprise settings, where high availiability, security, etc. are important concerns.

See the [project website](https://the-ai-alliance.github.io/enterprise-MCP/) for additional details about this project.

The rest of this README provides information for contributors, developers, and users of this project repo.

## Getting Involved

We welcome contributions as PRs. Please see our [Alliance community repo](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/) for general information about contributing to any of our projects. This section provides some specific details you need to know.

In particular, see the AI Alliance [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) instructions. You will need to agree with the AI Alliance [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

All _documentation_ contributions are licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0) (which is also in this repo, [LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0](LICENSE.CC-BY-4.0)). This is the primary license we care about for this documentation site.

However, any code and data in this repo are licensed as follows:

All _code_ contributions are licensed under the [Apache 2.0 LICENSE](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE.Apache-2.0) (which is also in this repo, [LICENSE.Apache-2.0](LICENSE.Apache-2.0)).

All _data_ contributions are licensed under the [Community Data License Agreement - Permissive - Version 2.0](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/LICENSE.CDLA-2.0) (which is also in this repo, [LICENSE.CDLA-2.0](LICENSE.CDLA-2.0)).

### Quick Tip - View the Website Locally

See [GITHUB_PAGES.md](GITHUB_PAGES.md) for information on viewing the site locally with `jekyll`.

### We use the "Developer Certificate of Origin" (DCO).

> [!WARNING]
> Before you make any git commits with changes, understand what's required for DCO.

See the Alliance contributing guide [section on DCO](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/community/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#developer-certificate-of-origin) for details. In practical terms, supporting this requirement means you must use the `-s` flag with your `git commit` commands.

## About the GitHub Pages Website Published from this Repo

The website is published using [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), where the pages are written in Markdown and served using [Jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll). We use the [Just the Docs](https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/) Jekyll theme.

See [GITHUB_PAGES.md](GITHUB_PAGES.md) for more information.

> [!NOTE]
> As described above, all documentation is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International. See [LICENSE.CDLA-2.0](LICENSE.CDLA-2.0)).
