docs/getting-to-know-mcp/index.markdown, before:

---
layout: default
title: Getting to Know MCP and Its Ecosystem
nav_order: 20
has_children: true
---

# Getting to Know MCP and Its Ecosystem

This section provides introductions to aspects of the MCP ecosystem. The following chapters are currently available.

## MCP and Everyone Else: a Review of Inter-agent Communication Protocols

In [MCP and Everyone Else - A Review of Inter-agent Communication Protocols](mcp-and-everyone-else/), [Laurie Voss](https://www.linkedin.com/in/seldo/){:target="linkedin"} reprises his [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kqB_xML1SfA){:target="youtube"} at the [MCP Developers Summit](https://luma.com/mcpdevsummit2025){:target="mcp-dev-summit"}. He provides an overview of several other inter-agent communication protocols out there that compete with or possibly complement MCP, along with his thoughts about how the ecosystem will evolve.

## NLIP, Agents, and Protocols

In [NLIP, Agents, and Protocols]({{site.baseurl}}/getting-to-know-mcp/nlip/), [Tom Sheffler](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tom-sheffler/){:target="linkedin"} provides an overview of NLIP and the problems it addresses. [NLIP (Natural Language Interaction Protocol)](https://github.com/nlip-project){:target="_blank"} defines a payload format for transferring natural language conversations augmented with multimodal media. Its intended use is as a transport between a user-facing application and an agent, or between two agents.  NLIP has defined bindings for for many protocols, including MCP, A2A, HTTP, and others. 

## Coming Soon

We plan to include chapters on the following topics:

* A quick introduction to MCP
* A dive into MCP under the hood
* The MCP roadmap

{: .todo}
> **TODO:** We welcome feedback on our current content and suggestions for new additions. Actual submissions are even better! See [contributing]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing) or provide feedback and suggestions using our [discussion forum](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/discussions){:target="discussions"}.

---

Commit message:

Slight refinement of the "MCP ecosystem" title and lead paragraph to reflect that other protocols are also discussed.
Signed-off-by: Dean Wampler <dean.wampler@ibm.com>

docs/getting-to-know-mcp/index.markdown, after:

---
layout: default
title: Getting to Know MCP and The Broader Ecosystem
nav_order: 20
has_children: true
---

# Getting to Know MCP and The Broader Ecosystem

This section provides introductions to aspects of the MCP ecosystem, along with some information on other protocols that either compete with or complement MCP. The following chapters are currently available.

## MCP and Everyone Else: a Review of Inter-agent Communication Protocols

In [MCP and Everyone Else - A Review of Inter-agent Communication Protocols](mcp-and-everyone-else/), [Laurie Voss](https://www.linkedin.com/in/seldo/){:target="linkedin"} reprises his [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kqB_xML1SfA){:target="youtube"} at the [MCP Developers Summit](https://luma.com/mcpdevsummit2025){:target="mcp-dev-summit"}. He provides an overview of several other inter-agent communication protocols out there that compete with or possibly complement MCP, along with his thoughts about how the ecosystem will evolve.

## NLIP, Agents, and Protocols

In [NLIP, Agents, and Protocols]({{site.baseurl}}/getting-to-know-mcp/nlip/), [Tom Sheffler](https://www.linkedin.com/in/tom-sheffler/){:target="linkedin"} provides an overview of NLIP and the problems it addresses. [NLIP (Natural Language Interaction Protocol)](https://github.com/nlip-project){:target="_blank"} defines a payload format for transferring natural language conversations augmented with multimodal media. Its intended use is as a transport between a user-facing application and an agent, or between two agents.  NLIP has defined bindings for for many protocols, including MCP, A2A, HTTP, and others. 

## Coming Soon

We plan to include chapters on the following topics:

* A quick introduction to MCP
* A dive into MCP under the hood
* The MCP roadmap

{: .todo}
> **TODO:** We welcome feedback on our current content and suggestions for new additions. Actual submissions are even better! See [contributing]({{site.baseurl}}/contributing) or provide feedback and suggestions using our [discussion forum](https://github.com/The-AI-Alliance/enterprise-MCP/discussions){:target="discussions"}.

---
